
                  README_Euler_MHD_Riemann_Problems_1D

      The goal of this suite of codes is to introduce you to the full range of 
one-dimensional Riemann solvers for Euler and classical MHD flow. (All these 
Riemann solvers also seamlessly extend to relativistic hydro and relativistic MHD.
But we have to present a manageable set to the student.) Two codes are
presented. There is "euler_RK_approxRS.src" which does 1D Riemann problems for 
Euler flow and "MHD_RK_approxRS.src" which does 1D Riemann problems for MHD flow.
These codes are available in the directories "EULER_RP_Tests_1D" and
"MHD_RP_Tests_1D" respectively. Plotting support is provided by a GnuPlot
script called "onedplot.sh" and its ancillary supporting codes.

      Algorithmically, both codes are very simple and very similar. They
are both also self-documenting. They are based on piecewise-linear (second
order) reconstruction that can be done either in the primitive variables or
in the characteristic variables. This choice is made with the variable
"icharlim". The kind of slope limiter is controlled by the variable "islope".
The second order spatial reconstruction is matched with a second order in 
time Runge-Kutta scheme. A range of Riemann solvers is included. Specifically,
we provide Roe-type Riemann solvers, HLL Riemann solvers, HLLC/D Riemann solvers
and HLLEM Riemann solvers. One can toggle between the Riemann solvers by
using "iriem_solvr".

      Let us describe parameters. "mu" is the CFL number. An entire range of
1D Riemann problems can be done with each of the codes. The choice of Riemann problem
is controlled by "iproblem". In the case of MHD there are too many different flow
structures that can form. For each choice of "iproblem" (and only in the MHD case),
the subroutine "SET_RP" describes a little about some of the test problems. Most importantly,
we can toggle between different Riemann solvers with "iriem_solvr". Linearized
Roe-type Riemann solvers, HLL Riemann solvers, HLLC/D Riemann solvers and 
HLLEM Riemann solvers are all included. All the parameters that can be set are 
described where they first occur in the codes. All of the important parameters
have their first occurance within the first two hundred lines of the codes so that
the user does not need to read too much of the codes to change the settings.

      The distribution already provides all the worked examples. We have also
provided the final images for all the worked examples, so you know what the
final answer looks like. If you wish, you may (optionally) go into the individual 
folders and see how we have modified the codes for each of the examples. You may 
use our modifications to guide you in making your own modifications.




